* [Explain it to Me Like I'm 5: OAuth2 and OpenID]{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5th6CSQTdpM}

** OAuth2 Roles (Terminology)

   - *Resource Owner*: Let's say you have a jacket.
   ~~ You are the resource owner.
   ~~ The jacket is the resource.
   - *Resource Server*: You put the jacket in a locker.
   ~~ The locker is the resource server.
   - *Authorization Server*: There is a lock on the locker.
   ~~ The lock is the authorization server.
   - *Client/Application*: Your friend gets your coat for you.
   ~~ Your friend is a client/application.

** Tokens

   - *Access Tokens*:
     Movie ticket; possession is the law.

   ~~ Bearer Token?
   ~~ JWT Token?
   ~~ Opaque Token?

   - *Refresh Tokens*:
     Parent's credit card; used to buy more movie tickets ðŸ˜‡.

** Scopes

   A synonym with a security role or a permission.

   - *A Job Role*:
   ~ Like Principal or Teacher.
   ~ A permitted authority or action.
   ~ What does it look like?
   ~~ Often dot separated: eat.cookies
   ~~ Google uses URLs: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calender.readOnly`

** How Scopes are Applied

   - Available set of scopes is restricted to the intersection of all
     available scopes.
   - The resulting set is what's available for a user accessing an
     application.
   - How a scope is interpreted is *only* enforced by the resource server.

   Client/Application: serve.lunch, eat.lunch
   Authorization Server: cook.lunch, eat.lunch
   User Login Form / Approval: eat.lunch

   *Result*: eat.lunch ðŸ‘

** Grant Types

   - *Client Credentials*: Service to service communication.
   - *Authorization Code*: Browser-based user login. Use with web, Mobile,
     SPAs and CLIs. Add PKCE for additional security.
   - *Device Code*: Televisions and environments with limited input
     capabilities.
   - *Refresh*: Obtain new tokens when one expires.
   - *Password & Implicit*: Less secure option for CLI, Mobile apps and SPAs.

*** Client Credentials

    - Simplest flow
    - Very similar to username/password except client is trusted.
    - Intended to machine-to-machine usage, automation and back-channel
      communication.
    - Each client/application has id & secret.
    - The id & secret is used to retrieve an access token.

    - *How it works*:
    -- Jacket (resource) is put in the locker (resource server).
    -- You forget your key.
    -- Janitor (client) has keys (id & secret), opens lock (authorization
       server) and retrieves your coat (resource).

*** Password

    - Very simple, but has three actors: user, client and resource server.
    - User must trust client absolutely.
    - Client obtains user's *actual password*. _INSECURE_
    - User provides password to the client, client uses password to get a
      token, client uses token to access resource server.

    - *How it works*:
    -- Jacket (resource) is put in the locker (resource server).
    -- You forget your jacket.
    -- You give your friend (client) your key (credentials), who can now open
       the lock (authorization server) and fetch your jacket (resource).

*** Authorization Code

    - Confidential, secure and Browser-based.
    - Can be used with mobile or cli apps, so long as a browser is available.
    - Makes heavy use of browser redirects, but also back channel requests.
    - Users may have the option to approve permissions granted to
      client/application.
    - Can be performed with *PKCE* (client generated secret) when client
      cannot be trusted like an SPA.
    - Implicit is a similar process, but without the temporary auth code.
      _Implicit is Insecure_

    - *How it works*:
    -- Jacket (resource) is put in the locker (resource server).
    -- You want to lent your jacket to a friend.
    -- Your friend (client) goes to locker, locker calls you (redirect), you
       enter your key (login) and confirm access. Your friend gets a
       temporary key (auth code), your friend opens the lock (access token)
       and gets the jacket.

** OpenID Connect

   OpenID Connect is an extension to OAuth2.

   - Standard to provide authentication (i.e. identity) on top of OAuth2
     (authorization).
   - Introduces:
   -- JWT (JSON Web Token) standard format
   -- An ID token with private information identifying the user (not an
      access token, not used for accessing resources).
   -- Some standard scopes like: openid, profile, email, etc.
   -- Some standard endpoints like `/login`, `/token` and `/userinfo`
   -- And other things like discovery, logout, etc.
   - Still has all the OAuth2 goodness.

*** OpenID Connect Authorization Code

    - Confidential, secure and browser-based.
    - Very similar to {# Authorization Code} flow.
    - High level differences:
    -- The goal is to authenticate (single sign-on), not access resource (i.e.
       authorize).
    -- You get back an id token instead of an access token.
    - There is a hybrid flow where you get both an id token and access token.

    - *How it works*:
    -- You want to go to the swimming pool, but it's member's only.
    -- The gate attendant (client) sends you (redirect) to the ticket booth
       (authorization server), you show your id (login) and are given a wrist
       band (id token), which can be used to enter the pool.

** Spring Security - Login Example

   ~ [Create a Spring Boot App with Spring Security, OAuth2 Client & Spring
   Web starters]{start.spring.io}
   ~ Create an OAuth2 client with your OAuth2 Provider.
   ~~ The redirect URL will be: `{baseUrl}/login/oauth2/code/{registrationId}`
   ~ Configure `application.properties` or `application.yaml`
   ~~ `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.{registrationId}.client-id=my-client-id`
   ~~ `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.{registrationId}.client-secret=my-client-secret`
   ~~ `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.{registrationId}.issuer-url=https://my-provider/..`
   ~ Add a controller & endpoint
   ~ Start your application: `./mvnw spring-boot:run`

** Spring Security - Client Example

   ~ Enable login support. (previou instructions)
   ~ Add dependency to Maven/Gradle for `org.springframework:spring-webflux`
     and `io.projectreactor.netty:reactor-netty`
   ~ In the `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`, add `http.oauth2Client(withDefaults())`
   ~ Create your `WebClient` bean.
   ~ Create `OAuth2AuthorizedClientManager` &
     `OAuth2AuthorizedClientProvider` beans
   ~ Inject a `WebClient` into classes where it's needed (i.e. services &
     controllers)
   ~ User `WebClient` to make requests

   > Most probably this is now outdated information, reference to
   > documentation is needed.

** Spring Security - Resource Server Example

   ~ [Create a Spring Boot App with Spring Security, OAuth2 Resource Server & Spring
   Web starters]{start.spring.io}
   ~ Configure `application.properties` or `application.yaml`
   ~~ `spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri={auth-provider}/.well-known/jwks.json`
   ~ Extend `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`
   ~~ add `http.oauth2ResourceServer(oauth2ResourceServerConfigurer::jwt);`
   ~~ define required roles, ex: `antMatchers(HttpMethod.GET,"/messages/**").hasAuthority("SCOPE_message:read")`
   ~ Add controller and endpoint
   ~ Start your application: `./mvnw spring-boot:run`

   > Most probably this is now outdated information, reference to
   > documentation is needed.
